---
title: Flatlake
nav_title: Home
weight: 1
---

Flatlake is a static API generator. The goal of Flatlake is to create a series of endpoints from a set of static Git-based files, thus exposing a headless CMS interface.

Flatlake has the primary goals:

- Ease migrations from a headless CMS to Git-based content management, allowing existing frontends to maintain their architecture.
- Open up new use cases for Git-based content, such as integration into existing codebases like mobile applications.
- Provide new abilities for aggregating and sharing data between multiple static websites in an organization.

From a set of input Markdown files with front matter, Flatlake will generate a set of JSON files that allow you to query your data. These files are suitable to host as an API on a domain, or they can be loaded in to another static site generator as data files.

For example, if Flatlake is supplied a folder of markdown files in a `posts` folder, the API generated by Flatlake would provide endpoints such as:

- `https://my-hosted-api.com/posts/post-one.json`
- `https://my-hosted-api.com/posts/all/page-1.json`
- `https://my-hosted-api.com/posts/aggregate/author/cloudcannon/page-1.json`

These endpoints would provide the ability to, for example:

- Fetch the latest 10 posts with a given author.
- Display the latest news article on all websites within your organization.
- Load individual endpoints into a mobile application dynamically.

To get started, see the [Quick start](/docs/) guide.
